README.md, before:

Introduction
============

Summary
-------

platelib is an attempt to make common tasks when working with kinetic
platereader, especially amyloid aggregation, data easy and compatible
with Python.

Disclaimer
----------

The state of this repository is one of very early development, the code
is not elegant, there most likely are bugs so **Use with caution!**

Read the docs
-------------

A brief overview is given below, for more detailed information see the
docs directory and subfolders, or even better have a look at the source
:)

Installation
============

Prerequisites
-------------

> -   [python](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
> -   [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/)
> -   [git](https://git-scm.com/downloads) (optional)

Download
--------

Either download the [source
distribution](https://github.com/edager/platelib/dist/) directly or use:

> `git https://github.com/edager/platelib`

Install
-------

Go to directory where the platelib source file is (`platelib/dist/` if
`git` was used) and run the following in the terminal:

    pip install platelib-X.X.tar.gz

Where `X.X` should be replaced by the version that was downloaded.

Upgrade
-------

Go to directory where the platelib source file is (`platelib/dist/` if
`git` was used) and run the following in the terminal:

    pip install --upgrade platelib-X.X.tar.gz

Where `X.X` should be replaced by the version that was downloaded.

Uninstall
---------

Simply go to the terminal and run:

    pip uninstall platelib

Cookbook
========

Reading in data
---------------

The main functionality of `platelib` is the `read_plate` function that
allows for reading in platereader data from kinetic experiments into a
common framework namely into the `Plate_data` class.

It can be specified how many replicates per sample were prepared
(default is `3`):

    p = read_plate('path/to/file', replicates=5)              

**NOTE that the number of replicates have to be the same for all
samples!**

It can be specified which direction the replicates were loaded onto the
plate where `'hori'` (horizontal) means towards increasing numbers and
`'vert'` is towards increasing letters (default is `'hori'`):

    p = read_plate('path/to/file', rep_direction='vert')

**NOTE that the replicates have to be next to each other!**

Data from Tecan platereaders can be read in as (default is `'bmg'`):

    p = read_plate('path/to/file', platereader='tecan')

**NOTE that this functionality has not been fully tested yet!**

As well as from BMG platereaders either where the data has prior been
transposed `True` such that well data are in column format or in row
format `False` (default is `True`):

    p = read_plate('path/to/file', transposed=False)

The time unit can also be specified which as either `'seconds'`,
`'minutes'`, `'hours'`, or `'days'` will carry along into indexes if
exported and to unit of x-axis if plotted (default is `'hours'`):

    p = read_plate('path/to/file',time_unit='days')  

Accessing data
--------------

The `Plate_data` class allows for different ways of accessing the data

Through index:

    p[1]

Through index slice:

    p[::3]

Through well name:

    p['B02']  

Through list of well names:

    p[['B02','C03','D04']] 

Retrieved as a pandas.DataFrame with wellnames as column names and time
points as index:

    df = Plate_data.to_a_dataframe()

Or as a (C)omma (S)eperated (V)aribles file with the first line being
(time unit + ) well names and the first column are the time points:

    Plate_data.to_a_csv('path/to/file.csv')

Plotting data
-------------

The data is plotted according to replicates, and subtitles can be added
(default is None), and it can be specified whether all plots should have
the same y-axis (default is True):

    p.plot(titles=['condition 1', 'conditions 2'], sharey=False)

Will make the number of samples plots, all replicates of a given
condition in the given plot.

Commit message:

Abstracted reading in of data, added functionality for handling multi chromatics using bmg, began populating fitfun it is still very rough though and most of it is a ansewr from stackoverflow.

README.md, after:

Introduction
============

Summary
-------

platelib is an attempt to make common tasks when working with kinetic
platereader, especially amyloid aggregation, data easy and compatible
with Python.

Disclaimer
----------

The state of this repository is one of very early development, the code
is not elegant, there most likely are bugs so **Use with caution!**

Read the docs
-------------

A brief overview is given below, for more detailed information see the
docs directory and subfolders, or even better have a look at the source
:)

Installation
============

Prerequisites
-------------

> -   [python](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
> -   [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/)
> -   [git](https://git-scm.com/downloads) (optional)

Download
--------

Either download the [source
distribution](https://github.com/edager/platelib/dist/) directly or use:

> `git https://github.com/edager/platelib`

Install
-------

Go to directory where the platelib source file is (`platelib/dist/` if
`git` was used) and run the following in the terminal:

    pip install platelib-X.X.tar.gz

Where `X.X` should be replaced by the version that was downloaded.

Upgrade
-------

Go to directory where the platelib source file is (`platelib/dist/` if
`git` was used) and run the following in the terminal:

    pip install --upgrade platelib-X.X.tar.gz

Where `X.X` should be replaced by the version that was downloaded.

Uninstall
---------

Simply go to the terminal and run:

    pip uninstall platelib

Cookbook
========

Reading in data
---------------

The main functionality of `platelib` is the `read_plate` function that
allows for reading in platereader data from kinetic experiments into a
common framework namely into the `Plate_data` class.

If an equal number of replicates per sample were prepared this can be
specified (default is `3`):

    p = read_plate('path/to/file', replicates=5)              

It can be specified which direction the replicates were loaded onto the
plate where `'hori'` (horizontal) means towards increasing numbers and
`'vert'` is towards increasing letters (default is `'hori'`):

    p = read_plate('path/to/file', rep_direction='vert')

**NOTE that the replicates have to be next to each other!**

Alternatively it can be specified which wells contains replicates:

    p = read_plate('path/to/file', named_samples=[['B03', 'D07'], ['B02', 'E06', 'G12']]     

Data from Tecan platereaders can be read in as (default is `'bmg'`):

    p = read_plate('path/to/file', platereader='tecan')

**NOTE that this functionality has not been fully tested yet!**

As well as from BMG platereaders either where the data has prior been
transposed `True` such that well data are in column format or in row
format `False` (default is `True`):

    p = read_plate('path/to/file', transposed=False)

Note that it's automatically detected if several measurements (*e.g.*)
were made per time-point (see Accessing data)

The time unit can also be specified which as either `'seconds'`,
`'minutes'`, `'hours'`, or `'days'` will carry along into indexes if
exported and to unit of x-axis if plotted (default is `'hours'`):

    p = read_plate('path/to/file',time_unit='days')

Accessing data
--------------

The `Plate_data` class allows for different ways of accessing the data

Through index:

    p[1]

Through index slice:

    p[::3]

Through well name:

    p['B02']  

Through list of well names:

    p[['B02','C03','D04']] 

Retrieved as a pandas.DataFrame with wellnames as column names and time
points as index:

    df = Plate_data.to_a_dataframe()

Or as a (C)omma (S)eperated (V)aribles file with the first line being
(time unit + ) well names and the first column are the time points:

    Plate_data.to_a_csv('path/to/file.csv')

Plotting data
-------------

The data is plotted according to replicates, and subtitles can be added
(default is None):

    p.plot(titles=['condition 1', 'conditions 2'])

It can be specified whether all plots should have its own y-axis,
whether all plots should have the same (default is True):

    p.plot(sharey='False')

If several measurements were made per time-point it can be specified
whether all measurements should be plotted or not (default is True):

    p.plot(plot_multi='False')
